US President Joe Biden is to visit
Israel on Wednesday in a show of
solidarity Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin made the announcement after
overnight talks with prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu lincol said they had
agreed on a plan to allow Aid into to
civilians in
Gaza the United States and Israel have
agreed to develop a plan that will
enable humanitarian aid from donor
Nations and multilateral organizations
to reach civilians in Gaza and them
alone including the possibility of
creating areas to help keep civilians
out of Harm's Way It Is critical that
Aid begin flowing into Gaza as soon as
possible we share Israel concern that
Hamas May seize or destroy Aid entering
Gaza or otherwise preventing it from
reaching the people who need it if Hamas
in any way blocks humanitarian
assistance from reaching civilians
including by seizing the aid itself will
be the first to condemn it and we will
work to prevent it from happening again
let's talk now to our correspondent in
West Jerusalem Alan fish
and Alan what more are we hearing about
this Aid
plan look at the language Anthony
blinkin was very Broad in what he said
long talks with the Israeli War cabinet
the president and also the Prime
Minister and at the end he doesn't have
anything concrete he said we would look
to find ways to deliver Aid and saying
that there is a need for Aid in Gaza but
there's no guarantee that that Aid is
going to get in and also they were
talking about how they would examine
ideas for safe zones again nothing
concrete so Anthony blinkin has spent a
long time with the Israelis he's
delivering a visit by Joe Biden which is
good politically for Benjamin Netanyahu
and also for Israel in general but he
hasn't got any deliverables that he can
turn around and say yes there's
definitely going to be Aid this is when
it will be delivered yes there's going
to be safe zones this is where they're
going to be remember he said that that
they were going to open the Raffa
Crossing it was bombed again yesterday
and there are still thousands of people
waiting to get out still hoping that
they can get out Al as you said that Joe
Biden set to arrive in Israel today
Wednesday what's he hoping to
achieve well many people speculated that
he of course was on his way on Monday
when he canceled an event in Colorado uh
he was later pitchered speaking to his
National Security team the reason they
were talking to the National Security
team was to talk about whether or not he
should actually travel to Israel now
he's decided that we will come here on
Wednesday but there's political risks
because the political wisdom would
suggest Joe Biden won't agree to come to
Israel if the ground war is underway so
therefore they're looking for a possible
delay in that and we know that the
Israelis are building up towards it the
other thing is while he's showing a
great deal of support uh for Israel and
that will play politically well at home
he can't be here if there is body after
body pilot ing up in Gaza so he's got to
have what they call in diplomatic speak
deliverables he's got to be able to say
when he comes here yes we will get Aid
into Gaza he's got to make the very
broad speeches of Anthony blinkin
something concrete something different
so that there isn't a huge humanitarian
crisis because he realizes how that will
play worldwide so Israel is of course
building up for this ground offensive
tell us how America is supporting that
militarily
well of course they sent in a carrier
group into the Mediterranean they're
second sending another aircraft carrier
in and overnight it was announced that
there would be a rapid reaction force
also based in the area that's 2,000
Marines and also Sailors who are coming
into the area now when you consider that
last weekend when they announced that
they were sending the carrier group that
was meant to act as a deterrent it's
clear that that isn't working now Iran
has said that if the bombardment of
civilians in Gaza it continues then
there's the possibility of fighting in
other fronts the Americans want to
contain this and they're aware of that
and that is why they sent the carrier
group in the first time but it's almost
like a small child don't do that again
and then being told don't do that again
so they now sent a carrier group another
aircraft carrier and now this rapid
reaction force they're hoping it's
acting as a deterrent it doesn't seem to
be having the effect that the Biden
Administration would like okay Alan many
thanks for that update Alan Fisher
reporting from West Jerusalem